Without any doubt, one of the main
clients of image and video process is us.
So let's just learn something about our
own visual system.
Here, we have a very simplified cross
section of the human eye.
We have the cornea, here, we have the
lenses and we have the retina.
The retina is where the images that we
see,
basically images that come to our eyes
are projected on.
So basically, as we see in this figure,
we have the scene.
So this is the actual scene in the real
world and it's projected into our retina,
here in the back of our eye.
The retina basically has sensors,
as we are going to talk in a second.
And the images are projected onto the
retina, and then they are sent into the
brain.
Okay?
So the retina is full of sensors,
all over the retina.
And naturally we have two type of
sensors.
We have cones.
The cones are basically marked here by
the continuous line,
that's the density of cones that we have
in the retina.
And as we can see, there is a very, very
high density of cones.
We see a very, very high peak of cones
around the fovea.
The fovea is basically where we can see
the best.
Cones are very good at seeing details.
Cones are very, very good at seeing in
bright light.
So, we are, without us noticing of
course, in our regular scenario,
we're always trying to move our eyes,
such that basically the scene is
projected as much as possible into the
fovea region of our retina.
So those are the cones.
Okay? And they, actually, their density
the amount of cones, the amount of
receptors goes down when we get away from
the fovea.
There is a different type of receptors
basically of sensors, which are called
the rods and those are, sorry?
The rods are basically marked in this
picture with these lines.
So the concentration of the rods is
actually a big more uniform across the
whole retina.
Basically, as we can see in this picture,
there is of course, a very low, basically
nonexistent concentration where the cones
take over and the rods are actually very
good to, not to look at details, but to
get a general idea of what's happening at
the scene and they're actually very good
to see in very dim light.
Okay?
So, between the, the cones that are very
good at seeing at bright light and very,
very concentrated around the fovea and
the rods which are spread all around the
retina and are very good at seeing at
very low light.
We get an extremely large spectrum of
light that we can observe with our naked
eye.
Before I detail a bit more about that,
I want to tell you that there's a region
in the retina that has basically no
sensors and that's that region here,
that's called the blind spot.
Basically, there's no receptors there and
we're going to notice that.
And we're going to discuss that in a few
weeks when we talk about an image
processing technique calling painting,
which as we have seen in the first videos
is about making, removing objects from
the scene.
We're going to be talking about the blind
spot a bit more and why or how.
It's believed that we actually don't
notice that there is a region of our
vision system that basically there are,
there are no reception of what's
happening in the scene, but we are
completely unaware of that.
So, going back to the point that we have
an extremely, extremely broad range of
intensities that we can see when we
combine the cones and the rods, we should
note that as depicting this figure.
We are actually, we can actually perceive
a very, very broad range of intensities.
So this is in logarithmic, okay?
It's really a huge part of intensities
that we are able to perceive and some of
it is actually perceived by the rods,
these low intensity.
Some if it is actually perceived by the
cones when we start going into high
intensities.
One of the issues is that we're able to
perceive very, very large range of
intensities, but not at the same time.
So we cannot see in very dark rooms and
very light regions of the room at the
same time.
Okay?
So we, we can see very dark,
we can see in very dark rooms, we can
also see in very light rooms. We cannot
see at the same time and what we need is
actually to adapt. So at certain level
of, at certain level of intensity, for
example, this point, we are actually
adapt and we are able to see this range.
If we are adopting around here, we are
not able to see or at least not see very
easily, around here or very, very low
intensities.
That's what happens. We experience this
all the time when we're going to a dark
movie theater. At first, we don't see
very well and after a while we adapt, and
we actually see where we are going, and
where do we need to see.
And the same when we go into a light
room.
Now,
it's very important that, regardless of
the background light, we're able to
distinguish the details and, and at, at
different levels.
So when we go into a movie theater and
the lights are off,
we don't want to see a uniform movie
theater.
We need to find where basically, our
seats are.
So we need to be able to discriminate
even between very low levels of light and
we also need to be able to discriminate
between very high levels of light.
So, that's what this adaptation allow us
to do.
And there are very, very good experiments
in the, in the literature to try to
understand, what kind of discrimination
we can obtain at different levels of
light.
And these experiments are basically very
simple in its, in its most fundamental
form.
So there's a background light, and we
basically draw a circle in the middle,
and we start changing the light of that
circle until the observer says oh, I
notice that there is a circle in there.
We can go up, making it lighter.
We can go down, making it darker.
And then we measure, how much change are
we able to perceive?
Now, the amount of change that we need to
perceive, depends, actually on the
background light,
and that's what's called Weber law and
this is shown in this picture.
It's a very interesting effect that if we
are in very low light conditions,
we need the delta i, the change to be
relatively high. If we are in very high
background light, we don't need so much
change.
So the basic idea is that if we are in a
very dark room, very small changes in, in
light, very, very small changes in, in,
in brightness will not be perceived.
We actually need much wider range of
changes, basically a, a much larger
change.
So, basically two things that are very,
that both of them are very dark and very
similar, we won't be able to distinguish
between them.
On the other hand, when the background is
already very bright, we don't need so
much difference between the different
levels to be able to distinguish between
different objects.
And that, as I say, is called the Weber's
Law and it's extremely important in the
design of images, and in the design of
cameras, and design of different image
acquisition devices.
Because if we want to distinguish between
two objects that both of them are very
dark, we need to be very careful.
Because we know that we need a very large
difference between those objects.
We are actually going to learn in Week 3,
actually, how to make these differences
even larger so we can distinguish them.
So if we take a picture of two very dark
objects that are different objects, but
are basically a brightness is very
similar, we're going to be able to
process that in the computer, so we can,
even with our naked eye distinguish
between them.
So, the conclusion of this part is that
we are able to observe and understand and
make interpretation of images in a very,
very wide range of brightness,
but we are not able to do all that at the
same time.
We need to adapt, and if we are adapting
to dark, then we are less sensitive that
if we adapted to bright areas, to, to,
very high levels of, of light.
Another very interesting aspect of our
visual system is that our visual
perception depends on what's surrounding
us.
One example is already Weber's law,
if we can perceive this circle in the
middle depends on actually the
brightness, the luminance, around it.
The other is what's called Mach bands.
And it might be a bit difficult to see
this through the video, but let me
explain it and in the next slide, we're
going to see an even more clear example.
The basic idea is that white are 2% here.
I present you here a black region,
a bit lighter, a bit lighter, a bit
lighter, and so on.
The actual intensities that I'm painting
each one of these is, is constant.
So basically, the intensity here is
constant as we can see it here.
The intensity here is constant, is this
intensity,
and so on.
So the intensity of every single one of
these segments is constant.
Our perception actually, doesn't look
like this, it's actually, doesn't look
constant like in this.
It's actually like here.
We perceive that when a dark region is
closer here, so we are at the boundary
between here, we actually perceive that
the dark is even darker, and the bright
is even brighter.
You might be able to perceive that in
these regions.
For example, that basically, we believe
that because we're coming here into
brighter region, we're coming from this
side, it actually looks darker.
We perceive it as being darker.
It's not actually, but we perceive it as
being darker.
I'm going to erase my annotation so maybe
you can see that a bit better.
Let me just point again to where you
should be looking at.
You should be looking at this boundary,
for example.
I'm going to draw on top of it and then
erase it,
you should be looking at this boundary
that, when you're coming from the left,
it looks actually darker than it actually
is.
And when you're coming from the right, it
looks actually brighter than it is.
So let me just erase this and give you
couple of seconds to try to see if you
see that.
But if you don't, don't worry.
We're going to go into to the next slide
and it's going to be even more clear.
Here, let me explain what we have.
We have three rectangles that actually
have exactly the same brightness.
So, they were painted with exactly the
same paint.
Now, the background have, were painted
with three different levels of gray.
This is dark, this is light, and this is
in between.
And I hope you can perceive, even through
the video, that.
Let me just go back.
You got this,
looks darker than this one, because this
one,
I'm going to erase all my annotation in a
second, so you can look at that again.
This one is surrounded by a brighter
background than this one that is actually
surrounded by a very, very dark
background.
And then the perception is that this one
is actually perceived as being darker
than this one.
Let's see if we can see that once more.
Okay?
I hope you can perceive that.
So there's a lot of visual illusions that
and, and tricks that our visual system
plays with us and here is yet one more.
The idea here,
there are a number of things.
Once again, I'm going to use my
annotation,
then I'm going to erase it.
So, I hope that all of you can perceive
here a square.
This actually not a square,
but you can perceive,
you believe that there is a square.
So you believe that there is a square
right there,
but you, actually, there is not.
There is actually, absolutely no
difference between the colors when I go
around here, between the level of y.
There is actually no difference here.
But, this gives us the illusion that
there's actually a square here.
I hope you can see it now.
Similarly, in this image, we actually
have straight lines coming in.
Nothing in the middle,
but when I'm going to erase that. I hope
you will be able to perceive that there
is kind of a circle form in the middle.
So we perceive.
It's actually very interesting to see
that sometimes the actual responses of
our visual system.
So if it were a measure, the actual
firing of the neurons in certain regions
of our visual system,
they're identical to those that will
happen if I actually drew a circle there.
So, this is a visual illusion that is as
strong as an actual drawing.
here is yet another example,
that because here we actually make an
angle like this, and here we make an
angle like this, most of us will perceive
this line as being longer than this line.
The same on the figure on the right.
Most of us will perceive that these lines
are actually not parallel,
but they actually are and the perception
that they are actually meeting each other
is a result of basically a visual
illusion.
So it's important when we're doing image
processing to understand how our basic
understanding of the visual system works.
Once again, because the main client of
image and video processing is basically
us.
So, in the next video, we're going to
start seeing formulas.
So far, I have shown you basic images and
some basic understanding of the human
visual system really basic understanding.
Some people spend their whole careers
studying the visual system, so these are
just some very, very basic process that
are important for us to continue.
And now we are going to start talking
about what are pixels, and what's
condensation, and what's quantization,
and what's discretization,
and what are those megapixel cameras or
even gigapixel cameras.
And what does all that mean. Thank you.